We have an archive interview with brother Horst Henschel.
He and his family face bitter persecution during World War II under Nazi Germany.
After the war, he was imprisoned for his faith in the GDR, the former East Germany.
When at his lowest point, notice what renewed his strength to endure and keep looking ahead.
My parents had a very strong faith in God and the Bible.
Of course, Jehovah's Witnesses were banned during the Second World War.
My mother was arrested and imprisoned.
My father could not reconcile military service with his conscience and therefore he refused to do it.
Until today, I can still see him sitting in front of the kitchen stove and looking in the open flames.
That was the last time I saw him in the shooting.
I had to go to school and he went to the district commando and explained them that he cannot be a soldier because of his conscience.
But it's a total of four times and hingewicht.
Finally, he was sentenced to death and was executed.
So in the beginning of his last letter, he wrote,
be happy when you get his letter.
Because I have endured in two hours, I will be executed.
And then he ends his letter with the words,
Auf Wiedersehen.
See you again.
My mother's faith and my father's integrity and their belief in the resurrection have had a deep impact in my life.
And I am still very grateful for that.
Later as a young man of 19 years, I also was arrested in the former GDR for proclaiming the Word of God.
I was sentenced to 12 years in prison, but I had only to serve six years.
What I learned is that Jehovah really helps at the right time.
The time of interrogation was difficult.
I was put in a solitary confinement cell in a cell with only very little light.
I did not have any strength anymore.
In the cell there was not much, only a plank bed for sleeping,
and on the wall a board with house rules that I didn't take notice of.
I looked at it and I turned it around.
And what did I read on the bank?
The lyrics of a song of our songbook.
It said,
Fear them not.
Oh, my beloved, the men's posting threats may fly.
Immediately, I regained my strength.
I felt like having been at the convention.
Because I knew other brothers had also been here that had endured and stayed faithful.
Of course, I will never want to forget this incident.
It showed me very clearly that Jehovah really gives us the power beyond what is normal.
It's like the Bible says,
The word of God exerts power.
Or, as it says in Proverbs,
The name of Jehovah is a strong tower.
Into it, the righteous one runs and receives protection.
The greatest freedom and its sensitivity.
Brother Henshel's experience reminds us that spiritual food in whatever form,
such as a theocratic song,
can strengthen us to keep enduring.